# Lifelong Learning Metrics (L2Metrics)

## Table of Contents

* [Introduction](#introduction)
* [Metrics](#metrics)
* [Getting Started](#getting-started)
  * [Prerequisites](#prerequisites)
  * [Installation](#installation)
* [Usage](#usage)
* [License](#license)
* [Notes](#notes)

## Introduction

Lifelong Learning Metrics (L2Metrics) is a Python library containing foundational code for the L2M metrics framework. This framework includes the following:

* Python libraries for processing performance logs generated by lifelong learning algorithms
* Support for extending the framework with custom metrics

## Metrics

The L2Metrics library supports the following lifelong learning metrics:

* Performance Recovery (PR)
* Performance Maintenance (PM)
* Forward Transfer (FT)
* Backward Transfer (BT)
* Performance Relative to a Single Task Expert (RP)
* Sample Efficiency (SE)

## Getting Started

L2Metrics is written in Python 3. It is recommended to use at least version Python 3.6.

### Prerequisites

This library depends on the following main Python packages, also listed in [setup.py](setup.py):

* numpy
* pandas
* tabulate
* scipy
* matplotlib

### Installation

#### 1. Clone the repo

  ```bash
  git clone https://github.com/darpa-l2m/l2metrics.git
  ```

#### 2. (Optional) Create a Python virtual environment

```bash
python -m venv <path_to_new_venv>
```

Activate the virtual environment as follows:

Linux:

```bash
source <path_to_new_venv>/bin/activate
```

Windows:

```powershell
<path_to_new_venv>/Scripts/Activate.ps1
```

#### 3. Install the L2Metrics package

```bash
pip install -e <path_to_l2metrics>
```

## Usage

To calculate metrics on the performance of your system, you must first generate log files in accordance with the L2Logger format. Please refer to the L2Logger documentation for more details on how to generate compatible logs.

Once these logs are generated, you'll need to store Single Task Expert (STE) data and pass the log directory as well as the performance measurement to run the metrics. Example log directories are provided to get you started.

See documentation in the examples folder at [examples/README.md](./examples/README.md) for how to run the L2Metrics framework and implement custom metrics.

## License

See [LICENSE](LICENSE) for license information.

## Notes

There are aspects of L2Metrics still under development including support for distributed training and testing/validation. This repository is being released to faciliate experimentation and feedback regarding the overall approach.
